## Overview

Fullstack web application to enable URL shortening.

### Project prerequisites 

You will need the following things properly installed on your computer.
* MySQL Ver 8.0.31 for Win64 on x86_64 (MySQL Community Server - GPL)
* NodeJS v16.17.1
* npm v8.15.0

Do ensure that the database, dotenv and dependency setup is performed before running the application.

### Database setup
1. Open an instance of the command line client. 
2. Run `mysql -u <username> -p` and enter your password when prompted.
3. Create a new database with `CREATE DATABASE <database_name>;`
4. Confirm its creation with `SHOW DATABASES;`, then exit the command line client by typing `exit`

### Dotenv setup

#### `/backend/.env`
* MYSQL_USERNAME = < mysql username >
* MYSQL_PASSWORD = < mysql password >
* MYSQL_DATABASE = < database_name from above >
* MYSQL_HOST = < mysql host >
* MYSQL_PORT = < mysql port >
* TYPEORM_SYNC* = < true | false >
* API_PORT = < api port to expose >

*If set to `true`, database schema changes in `/backend/src/typeorm/Urls.ts` will be dynamically synced with the database. 

#### `/frontend/.env`
* REACT_APP_BASE_API = < backend base api endpoint >

### Installing dependencies
1. Open an instance of the command line client.
2. Change directory to `/backend`. Run the command `npm install`
3. Return to the root directory, then to `/frontend`. Run the command `npm install`

### Running the application locally
1. Open two instances of the command line client.
2. For the first instance:
	1. Change directory to `/backend`
	2. Run the command `npm run start`
3. For the second instance:
	1. Change directory to `/frontend`
	2. Run the command `npm start`

4. Once the backend and frontend servers are running, visit http://localhost:3000


### Assumptions and limitations
This app does not have an authentication and account system, which may not be ideal as users will find it more difficult to keep a record of the URLs that they have previously generated. Furthermore, the 'shortened' url generated by the app is still relatively long due to the domain name and url shortening mechanism.

To improve on this, a login system can be implemented for users, and a shorter domain name can be purchased for the application. The unique ID for each url can also be shortened further by using other libraries. 
